.Dd March 14, 2014
.Dt NVDXJIRA 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm nvdXjira
.Nd cross-reference CVEs from the NVD with Jira
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl Dhv
.Op Fl c Ar file
.Op Fl j Ar url
.Op Fl l Ar file
.Op Fl p Ar project
.Op Fl r Ar file
.Op Fl s Ar file
.Op Fl t Ar tag
.Op Fl u Op tickets
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility cross-references CVEs read from stdin in NIST's National
Vulerability Database XML format with a Jira instance.
That is, for every CVE found, it will look for tickets containing the CVE
identifier anywhere in the text.
For any CVEs not found in Jira,
.Nm
can create a new ticket.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Nm
supports the following options:
.Bl -tag -width p_project_
.It Fl D
Run in debug mode.
No tickets will be created.
.It Fl c Ar file
Read configuration from this file.
.It Fl h
Print a short usage statement and exit.
.It Fl j Ar url
Specify the base URL for Jira.
.It Fl l Ar file
Read actions and patterns to apply to tickets with matching labels from
this file.
.It Fl p Ar project
Create new tickets in this project.
.It Fl r Ar file
Read regular expressions from this file and immediately close any tickets
where the body matches.
.It Fl s Ar file
Read actions and patterns to apply to tickets with matching vulnerable
software list from this file.
.It Fl t Ar tag
Tag new tickets with this tag/label.
.It Fl u
Update existing tickets only.
If this flag is given,
.Nm
will not read any input data and only act on existing tickets in Jira.
It may apply software actions, assign the ticket for triaging or nag the
current owner.
.Pp
If any ticket names are given as arguments,
.Nm
will only update those tickets.
.It Fl v
Be verbose.
Can be specified multiple times.
.El
.Sh DETAILS
.Nm
operates on XML data describing CVEs in NIST's National Vulnerability
Database.
The data is read from stdin.
.Nm
will loop over all entries in the input and query Jira for any tickets
containing the CVE identifier in its text and, if no tickets are found,
create a new ticket for the CVE.
.Pp
New tickets are, by default, created under the 'VULN' project, and tagged
with the 'cve' label.
.Pp
If the
.Fl u
option is provided,
.Nm
will query Jira for all unassigned, open tickets and update them according
to the given software actions.
.Pp
Any tickets mentioning a CVE will be linked to the respective ticket as
"related", unless another link already exists.
.Pp
.Sh AUTOMATIC ACTIONS
.Nm
can read a list of actions and patterns from the file specified via the
.Fl s
flag.
That file should contain lines with two whitespace separated fields
containing as the first field an 'action' to perform against tickets with
a 'vulnerable software list' field matching the regular expression in the
second field.
An optional third field can be provided to add as a comment when the given
action is applied.
.Pp
\'actions' may be:
.Bl -tag -width mail_user1_user2_
.It assign:user
Assign the given ticket to the specified user.
.It blocker:project
Create a blocker ticket in the given project.
.It cancel
Close the given ticket.
This is commonly used if the given software is known not to be in use.
.It mail:user1,user2
Send an email to user1 and user2 with information about this ticket.
.It watch:user1,user2
Add user1 and user2 to the list of watchers.
.El
.Pp
Similarly, actions may be defined for matching jira labels found in the
file specified via the
.Fl l
flag.
The syntax for the file is the same as above (ie two whitespace separated
fields, defining actions and regular expressions matched against each
label).
The supported actions for this file are:
.Bl -tag -width mail_user1_user2_
.It mail:user1,user2
Send an email to user1 and user2 with information about this ticket.
.El
.Sh CONFIGURATION
By default,
.Nm
reads its configuration from the file
.Ar /etc/nvdXjira
(if it exists).
In this file, you can specify the following keyword=value pairs:
.Bl -tag -width assign-threshold_
.It assign-threshold
The number of seconds after which a ticket is assigned to a member of the
\'triage-group\'.
Defaults to 86400 (24h).
.It cve-threshold
The number of seconds after which a CVE is consider too old to bother.
Defaults to 4838400 (8w).
.It nag-threshold
The number of seconds after which a ticket is updated with a comment,
suggesting further attention.
Defaults to 1209600 (2w).
.It password
The password with which to authenticate against the Jira API.
Overwrite using the
.Ar NVDXJIRA_PASSWORD
environment variable.
No default value.
.It project
The Jira project under which to create new tickets.
Overwrite using the
.Fl p
flag.
Defaults to 'VULN'.
.It reject
The pathname of a file containing regular expressions based on which to
immediately close any tickets with a matching description.
Defaults to '/etc/nvdXjira/reject-patterns'.
.It swactions
The pathname of a file containing regular expressions based on which to
assign or cancel tickets.
Defaults to '/etc/nvdXjira/software-actions'.
.It triage-group
The name of the Unix group containing users to whom tickets
should be assigned.
Defaults to 'cve-ticket-handlers'.
.It url
The base URL for Jira API access.
Overwrite using the
.Fl u
flag.
No default value.
.It username
The username to authenticate as against the Jira API.
Overwrite using the
.Ar NVDXJIRA_USER
environment variable.
Defaults to
.Ar USER .
.It tag
The tag with which to label newly created tickets.
Overwrite using the
.Fl t
flag.
Defaults to 'cve'.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
To create new tickets for any CVEs found in the most recent data from NIST
using the 'security' project and tagging each ticket using the 'nvd'
label:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
curl https://nvd.nist.gov/static/feeds/xml/cve/nvdcve-2.0-recent.xml |  \\
        nvdXjira -p security -t nvd
.Ed
.Pp
To very verbosely update existing tickets without consuming CVE data:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
nvdXjira -u -v -v -v -v
.Ed
.Pp
To only update the existing tickets FOO-123 and BAR-99:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
nvdXjira -u FOO-123 BAR-99
.Ed
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr yvc 1
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
was originally written by
.An Jan Schaumann
.Aq jschauma@twitter.com
in April 2013.
